in this tutorial I'm going to show you
how to make the pop-up lovebirds card as
you can see here there are two birds as
you open the card the heads move
together and move two hearts closer
together
as usual go to credit pop cards crap
pop-up cards calm and print out the
template now after you cut out the parts
the first thing to do is to fold up some
of these sections as shown here this is
what I'm doing I'm folding the bodies of
the birds inwards and then the wings
upwards now you also will cut out the
two tails of the birds and this is what
the tail looks like and fold it in half
and then fold the tabs outwards this is
a close-up of what the tail looks like
so the next step is to glue the bodies
together you want to make sure that you
only glue the bottom part of the body
don't glue the heads together because
you'll be attaching those hearts or
other items between the beaks
so just glue the bottom parts of the
bird
so what I'm doing now is I'm removing
the card from the rest of the card stock
and I'm gonna fold the the center center
of the card now you might want to try to
fold the card first before full gluing
the the bodies together otherwise it's a
little bit hard to align as you can see
here it was a little bit misaligned so
I'm gonna reglue this section now it
should fold properly so make sure when
you fold the card it folds flat and that
everything is perfectly aligned
okay the next step is to create the
backing of the card I'm using a pink
cardstock and I want to cut two pieces
which are six and a quarter inches by
four and a half I'm cutting the card
lengthwise to get the six seven six and
a quarter inch dimension and then I'm
going to be cutting two sections off at
about four and a half inches
this is the first section make sure you
keep track of which edge which of the
two edges match so when you glue these
sections to your to your Center white
card that those two edges will will also
match like so okay now you want to glue
these two sections to your main card I'm
going to glue this on top of a white
sheet of paper so that the extra glue
will stay on the paper and not get on my
cutting board I'm using Elmer's glue to
glue the edges which is a little bit
stronger and then I'm going to use a
glue stick to glue the the center part
of the card and this will hopefully
reduce the amount of warping the card
wall will have from the Elmer's glue you
know wait you want to be careful and
make sure that you align the outside
card to the inside fold that Center fold
okay now let's glue the other section
now I'm using a new sheet of paper in
the back so that I don't use I don't get
any of the glue onto the card again I'm
using Elmer's glue to that for the edges
and then a glue stick for the center of
the card
you take off any extraneous pieces of
glue okay again align the cardstock to
the center fold you want to make sure
that it's properly aligned to the center
folds when you open it it opens properly
like so now you may have noticed that
the edges were not perfectly all the
side edges and the top and bottom edges
weren't perfectly aligned you could trim
off the edges a few millimeters and this
will align both of the center white
cardstock and the outer pink card
okay the next step is to glue the tails
on now you've already followed the tails
I'm gonna put the glue on the small tabs
and include behind bird both of these
these tails are identical so you could
use either tail for either bird and make
sure it folds flat
okay now I'm going to show you what this
looks like in a close-up this is what
the section looks like glued in the tail
okay now we're almost done make sure
everything folds flat and then choose
what you want to put in the bird's beak
I have a couple different variations of
the I love you or the heart you could
also put your name you could have the
two birds bring the names together but
in this example I'm going to use the
simple simple hearts
okay so again luckily we do not glue the
beaks together so we could slide in the
little hearts between the beaks now you
want to put the parts in there open
close the card a few times and make sure
it aligns properly and then once you're
satisfied the way with the way it looks
then you could dab a little bit of glue
in there to firmly a fix the items in
the birds beaks so this is what it looks
like
thank you for visiting my website and
watching creative pop-up cards calm